Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
Ans:-> A programming language is a special language programmers use to develop software programs, scripts, or other sets of instructions for computers to execute.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Ans:-> JDK Stands for Java Development Kit. Jdk contains various components such as Run Time Interpreter, The Debugger, The Aplet Viewer, The Header, API Source Code, The Class file Disassembler and The Documentation Generator.

What is IDE?
Ans:-> IDE Stands for Integrated Development Environment. IDE is an application which enables user to more easily write and debug Java programs.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Ans:-> Eclipse , IntelliJ, netBeans, JCreator, BlueJ, BorlandJBuilder, Dr.Java.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Ans:-> Java Code is written in a text editor or in Any java IDE and saveed as dot(.) java extension wich is then compiled by using java complier and create a .class file. Class file contains bytecodes. The class file then load iton the JVM using java loader. Finally JVM reads the bytecodes in memory and translate them into machine code for us to see the output.

what is class?
Ans:-> Class is a blueprint of an object. in other words we can say that class is a template that is used to create objects, and to define object data types and methods.

What is object?
Ans:-> Object is an instance of a class. Object determines the behavior of the class.

What is the entry point of an application?
Ans:-> The main method is the entry point of an application.

Why main is static?
Ans:-> The main method is static because it can be invoked by the runtime engine without having to instantiate an instance bof the parent class.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Ans:-> java.lang.object is a superclass of all class.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Ans:->1). Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables.

      Classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path, of classes.ie in J2EE we give the path of jar files.


      2). PATH is nothing but setting up an environment for operating system. Operating System will look in this PATH for executables.

      Classpath is nothing but setting up the environment for Java. Java will use to find compiled classes

      3). Path refers to the system while classpath refers to the Developing Envornment.

      4). In path we set the path of executables while in classpath we set path of jars for compiling classes.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Ans:-> In interface, we can only declare methods which are abstract but in abstract class, method can be abstract and non­abstract.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
Ans:-> No, Because we can't create an object from any abstract class.

what is Access Specifier?
Ans:->  access Specifier just basically gives us access to the class.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Ans:-> OOP stands for Object Oriented Programming. Object-Oriented Programming is a methodology to design a program using classes and objects.
There are four features in OOP

=> Abstraction -> Abstraction is implementation hiding. We use abstract class and interface to achieve abstraction.
=> Inheritance -> Inheritance is a way to aquire properties from one class to another class. It provides code reusability.
=> Encapsulation -> Encapsulation is data hiding. We hide data by making the variables private.
=> Polymorphism -> Polymorphism is basically an ability to take on many forms. There are two types of polymorphism (Method overloading, Method over writing)

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Ans:-> The java.lang package is always imported by default as it is loaded internally by the JVM.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
ANs:-> Java API is a list of all the classes that are part of the Java Development Kit(JDK). It includes all Java packages, classes, and interfaces, along with their methods, fields, and constructors.
Iterator
List
ListIterator
Map
Map.Entry
ObjectInput
ObjectInputValidation
ObjectOutput
ObjectStreamConstants
Serializable
String
StringBuffer
StringBuilder
System
Thread
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
What is method overloading and when it happens?
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
What is final, finally and finalize?
What is a constructor ?
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
What is "this" keyword in java ?
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
What is JVM stand for ?
Is JVM platform independent?
What version of java are you using?
What is JAR stand for ?
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
What is compile time and run time?
What is heap?
How java manage it's memory?
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









